---
id: 116020
title: 'Department of quality control of education'
category: 'Branch'
subCategory: 'Center and Divisions'
description: 'Department of quality control of education of our branch'
---

On April 20, 2017, the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan Sh.M. Mirziyoyev adopted a resolution No. PP-2909 "On measures for the further development of the higher education system." To fulfill the tasks of this decree and achieve results in the higher education system, on July 18, 2017, the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan adopted decree No. 515 "On organizing the activities of the state inspection for quality control under the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan" and on the basis of the quality control department for personnel training, certification of pedagogical personnel and educational organizations of the state test center, an inspection for quality control of education was organized under the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan.

On the basis of these regulatory documents, since December 2017, the Education Control Department began its work in all higher educational institutions of the Republic of Uzbekistan.

On December 21, 2017, the quality management of education was created and started to work in the Nuku branch of the Institute of Arts and Culture of Uzbekistan. On the recommendation of the State Inspectorate for Quality Control in Education under the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan, Candidate of Philology, Associate Professor Kalekeyev Kuanyshbai Zhartybaevich was appointed head of this department.

According to clause 14 of Resolution No. 515 adopted on July 18, 2017 by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan, Orazov Abdikadir Yusupovich and Dauletmuratova Mehribanu Bektileuovna were appointed chief specialists of the department.

Approved by the State Inspectorate for Quality Control of Education under the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan on December 30, 2017 by order No. 50, the work plan approved in the prescribed manner, approved by the State Inspectorate for Quality Control of Education, conducts its work on the basis of the standard Charter Approval of tariff-qualifications by the Ministry of Education of Higher and Secondary Specialized Education December 26, 2017 No. 941.

The main duties of the department are to study and analyze the knowledge gained by students of the Nuku State Institute of Arts and Culture of the State Educational Standards, monitor the quality of training, organize internal certification of the branch, as well as present the facts that influenced the quality of education based on the results of internal certification to the director of the branch and the State Inspectorate.
